In this video you'll be learning about setting up email addresses for web site owners at their own private
You'll learn about different hosting and server setups and how different server environments need certain
Sometimes e-mail should be managed at a different server than the Web site itself and you'll learn when
and how to do it.
You'll know what's needed for setting up new email addresses changing the DNS so that the domain points
e-mails to the right place and about incorporating existing email addresses into the web site using
Let's get started.
Let's look at a site I own at Greg Davis dot com within its See panel that I have at the site Ground
hosting account inside the see panel I've gone to the home page now of the control panel and one of
And let's just look at e-mail accounts and how they're controlled inside of the panel.
Now if I were using site ground for my e-mail accounts I could just add another e-mail address right
Choose a password and choose a mailbox quota and click Create account.
that email would work and I can then set up an email client or log in to webmail via any browser and
I could use an email address at my private domain name.
Now I don't use site ground for managing my email addresses at Gray Davis dot com and I've mentioned
But I use the Rackspace apps email provider to control email addresses where I want a little bit more
If I look under mailboxes at the Rackspace app's control panel you can see that I've got several domain
Rackspace for email is that you get 25 gigabytes for storage of emails and attachments with your email
Now if we go back to the control panel you can see that by default the control panel urges us to use
Now it's a good idea to do this if you choose unlimited for an email address.
It's possible depending on how the client uses email.
You might fill up your allocated storage inside of your web site's server.
than the Web site itself.
Behind the scenes of this setup I can show you how the DNS records for the domain name.
Greg Davis dot com differ from if I was holding my email at the web server I need to point certain DNS
Greg Davis dot com.
Go to the Rackspace email servers and those entries inside of DNS records are called MX entries their
Now if I look at Greg Davis dot com you can see that I'm using a remote mail exchanger set so that when
the domain points email or web traffic to Gray Davis dot com one of the things that it does it uses
name servers.
If you look at my site Ground account you can see that my DNS name servers are a private location inside
Now I'm the only one that uses these name servers because I have all my client sites as I've shown you
However when my domain registrar go daddy points all web traffic towards siker round I need to change
the MX records inside of my subpanel for Gray Davis duck.
So I've got a remote mail exchanger selected here and I added two MX records recommended by Rackspace
over here.
Now the recommended MX records to point mail at the Rackspace servers as you can see our M-x one dot
email server dot com and MX to the email server dot com.
server provider that you're using.
I can see that at Rackspace you know I have a $2 a month charge for every e-mail box that I use that
I do set up a client sites at Rackspace.
email from the server as it comes in.
Most of your clients will most likely not need an upgraded service like this but they can use email
at the actual server where you host the Web site as long as they have a setting where they limit the
clients to set up their email clients like Outlook or Thunderbird from Mozilla.
You coached them to delete the emails off of the server when they come in.
Potentially you can have them keep several thousand emails on the server if they'd like to go back and
But it's a best practice to delete all the emails off the server so it doesn't just continually build
Now at the managed WordPress hosting company flywheel that I highly recommend and use for my high end
It's a real positive piece of advice that they do not host email because they believe in working with
That just means that they are really good at hosting Web sites and HTP traffic but they don't specialize
in being an email provider and so they recommend that you point your DNS at an external e-mail provider
like I've been talking about in this video.
And they do recommend Google Apps which has a charge for it.
Zoho mail which actually has free e-mail for up to 25 users per domain name and then Rackspace email
Now I do use Zoho mail for several of my clients because it's free to setup and you can point your DNS
at Zoho mal.
You'll find if you research it that the highest end and the more expensive managed WordPress hosts recommend
hosting your email externally from the web site instead of having it hosted at the same place when you're
And if you use best practices for setting up email say a shared account at site ground or shared account
Well you are able to set up using best practices so that your server doesn't get filled up and shut
One of the reasons I kept my mail at Rackspace even though I don't host my websites there anymore is
that I had e-mail addresses and aliases set up at Greg Davis dot com for several years before I moved
One of the things that email aliases can do for you is that you can create email addresses to use for
I think what do I have here.
I have 321 different email addresses that are aliases of my Greg Davis e-mail address.
Now each one of these e-mail addresses for example can Tasia at Greg Davis dot com if someone sends
However I can't send from that address.
And what this gives me is that if I get spammed or if any of these email addresses get added to a spammers
I will not be getting any spam.
I create or use one of these email addresses so that if at any time my e-mail address gets sold or placed
And I never share my real base email address with anyone in the online communities.
One of the great things about Rackspace apps and Rackspace email services is that you can have an unlimited
Ground Gray Davis dot com a see panel.
I'll go back home and finish by showing you what e-mail forwarding is about.
If I do have an e-mail address at a private domain like Greg Davis dot com I can set up an email forwarder
which will forward email automatically when sent to an address I create at Greg Davis dot com to any
For example if I have a special e-mail address say Greg at Greg Davis dot com.
But I don't want to set up that email to be checked with Outlook or use the webmail interface.
I can have that email forwarded to my Gmail account for example or my yahoo account that I know I check
I'll often use email forwarding to make it easy on my clients so they can have an email address they
That is a private email address at their domain name but then they want that email to be forwarded and
In this lesson we would have a private domain name email addresses and some of the different ways to
to learn about email hosting for clients DNS and MX records at the domain name and email forwarding
in the next video.
We'll go back to setting up systems within WordPress Web sites to take control of transactional email
See their